Beach Bluenoser - Closing Document

The App:
I led a team to successfully develop the Beach Bluenoser application for our client Miss Naomi Buchanan. The application was created for the purposes of getting real-time information regarding Nova Scotia Beaches such as weather, parking capacity information, accessibility information, lifeguard information, as well as environmental warnings such as extreme weather conditions, algae bloom, or on-going construction. 
The app also allowed users to create accounts, plan trips and add beaches to their favorites, and leave reviews. Furthermore, the app had specialized admin and lifeguard’s accounts for content management and adding critical information regarding beaches.

How To Deploy the App:
To obtain the source code you will need to clone the repo via git or download the zip file.

Firebase Access: 
To prepare the application for release, the client must first remove both the log calls as well as the “android:debuggable” attribute from the android manifest file. Next, they will need to set the app's version information. Finally, they must use the release build type Gradle files to build and sign a release version. Once all of these are completed, the client has a few different options for how to release the application. More information about the preparation and release of the application can be found here: https://developer.android.com/studio/publish 

Client Maintenance Requirements:
For the purposes of beach capacity, parking capacity etc. (user/lifeguard survey data), The application is storing the data automatically data based on the day, meaning the data for each beach will reset every day. And the results on the beach landing page will show the average results from the beach surveys for that day. At the end of the day, all the survey results for that day are stored in the database for recordkeeping and can be accessed via navigating to the corresponding dates. Although this is all done automatically, it should be monitored regularly that it is working properly. There is currently a limit of 1 GiB for how much of this data can be stored in Firebase, any more than that would cost more money to maintain. Because of this, it would be recommended to export this data regularly, or at the very least set up a backup to store the data outside of the Firebase Firestore.

Client Administrative Requirements:
The client is responsible for updating the permissions for the management accounts. Whenever a new management user or company needs to create an account, they must contact the client and either the client can create the account with the correct permissions, or they can update the permissions of an already existing account. Both currently need to be done manually within the database. This task is generally simple, but involves going to the BBUSERSTABLE_PROD, selecting the users ID of an already created account and changing the “userType” from “user” to “Lifeguard” (capital L is important).
Along with this, creating beach codes for the lifeguards to sign in with needs to be done for each beach. Currently the first 2 beaches are setup. To do this, go into the database table “AccessToken” and add the beach name. Inside this new collection, add a field called “Token” with the value of whatever token you may want. Lastly add the beach name as a field called “beachName”.
software and sync/rebuilding the Gradle files (this may take a little bit of time to build for the first time while all dependencies get installed). Read the deployment guide provided here or on confluence to see how the request the access to firebase however, in terms of the database itself everything should be self-contained to a point where the Firebase credentials are stored in the code, but if not, the IDE provides step-by-step instructions (can also be found at: https://firebase.google.com/docs/android/setup)

Website and the App
This application was created from the existing website, making user of the same database for seamless interactions and integrations. However, the last team (the team before us), did change the requirements for many fields in the database so the user registration on the website no longer matches that on the app and we have utilized those fields for some of the new features that were added during this semester. However, since the website users currently go into the “usertable” table, and the app users currently go into “BBUSERSTABLE_PROD” table it should not cause any breaks.
The application is currently operational, but it is not done with development. There are still a lot of frontend development and extra features that the client want added to provide a much more clean and refined experience for the user. Moreover, the client also wants this app on IOS so porting the application is another thing worth investigating. In its current state the client should be able to beta test the application and get user feedback on the functionality of the features and find any bugs that may have been missed.
Updating Beach Images
As per the client instructions, the images are hardcoded into the firebase and app as opposed to being fetched via an API. To update and add photos within the firebase and the applications first select the required photo in your system rename it using underscores and add them to the drawable folder. Next rename the same image in the firebase but use dashes instead underscores. Make sure all the.jpg is added for all the images
Geolocation Tracking
For working on geolocation, the app is currently requesting permission from users in the UserDataSurvey.java file lines 135 – 166. Once permissions are granted the user should have their location taken and verified that it is within 5 KM of the beach they are checking into. They should then be able to fill out the contents of the survey and update the beaches page accordingly. The API we are using for this feature is the “Maps SDK for Android”.

